Let's set up our view.
I'll create a new game object and place it in the scene hierarchy.
I'm doing that because we know the View is going to use some unity UI.
Unity UI plays nice by having mono behaviors in use.
I'll start by creating a unity canvas.
I can right click in the scene hierarchy and choose to create the canvas itself and then within the
canvas we know I'll need some input fields and a button.
So all of that stuff now.
Within the canvas.
I created a panel which gives us the floating gray square that occupies most of the game view.
Then I added three input fields and two buttons so we can have the input for A, for B for the result,
and then the buttons for adding as well as clearing and resetting the app.
Currently, all these UI elements have the same position.
They're centered on the screen.
So I'll fix that now.
Here.
I positioned each of the UI elements and gave them a name in the scene hierarchy.
So we have an input field for A, B and the result?
As well as a button for adding and resetting.
Now the base of this structure is canvas.
What I like to do is rename canvas to match the name of my view and add the custom class.
Here, I'll add the class of calculator view and move on to set up that code because the calculator
view is using Unity UI.
We've extended mono behavior that part set up.
We will implement the eye view and we'll implement the missing members.
We'll use all the defaults.
Let's set up our initialize.
That's a good start for the initialize.
Now we'll serialize all the UI fields that we need and observe events as needed for each of them.
So here in the fields we've created serialized fields for each of the UI elements we need and in the
initialize we're listening to some key events.
Any time the user is editing the input fields for A or B, we'll do something here and a bit later we
will implement the consequence of clicking add or clicking reset.
Let's go back to the scene hierarchy and wire up the view.
So here on the calculator view, we'll wire up the serialized fields to the UI elements.
We'll start with the A input field.
To be input field the result.
You add button.
And the reset button.
So our scene hierarchy is nearly complete.
One more thing we need to do, though, is to pass the calculator view into the mini itself here.
In the example file we'll serialize a field and pass it into the calculator mini.
So we've created the field and we passed it into the constructor.
Let's update that class.
So it's expecting it to come in to the constructor.
We didn't have a constructor before, so let's create one here, accept the calculator view and store
the calculator view back in the queue hierarchy.
Let's wire this up so we'll drag a reference from the calculator view into the new serialized field.
Now most everything we need for the scene is set up.
We'll save the scene and go back to the code.
At this point, we've got a project that's pretty well set up.
We have at least some form of the implementation for the mini class, the model, the view and the controller.
We're not done yet, but we've got a pretty good scene set up as well as compiling code from here in
the calculator mini class.
Let's think about what comes next here in the initialize, we see we've got the context set up the model.
We're not doing something with the view right here, but we know we've got it wired up pretty good.
We've got the controller, which definitely needs implementation and we're doing some of the initialization.
Let's return to our use case to help us brainstorm.
So remember we wanted to accept two int values, do some addition and display the result.
Here's our progress so far.
We've got our view set up with the requirements here, but we don't have the model or the controller.
We could freely choose which of those we want to go to next.
Since I feel like the model implementation is going to be more straightforward, let's finish up the
model and end all of our coding by working on the controller.
So here in the model we know we want to store some ints Now, while optional.
So far in our samples, we've used the observable class, which gives us not just the functionality
of an INT for storage, but also a nice way to listen to any changes to that stored value.
So let's use that now.
So we create A property for a, B and the result as well as a field.
Now it's my approach for all project X to have a public property with a private value underneath it
that's optional.
You could instead just have a public field.
As with other examples we've seen, we'll use the initialize of the model to set some default values
depending exactly what your default values are.
This may not be necessary, but I think it's a great practice.
So because calculator model extends base model base models already handling initialization.
So just like general object oriented programming, we can override a parent method.
Call the base method to get the base functionality and set our defaults this way.
With that complete, let's look at the controller.
The controller implementation is our last piece of the puzzle.
We've got a view setup and a model setup.
Now the controller needs to be the glue that brings it all together.
First, I created a constructor to take in all the concerns we want to care for.
In this case, the controller is going to care for the other concerns, which is the calculator model
and calculator view.
I'll store those as fields, then I update the initialize to do the very common steps of checking if
you're initialized and storing the context.
So what are some things we're going to need to do here in the controller?
Well, one, now that we have a reference to the model, we want to observe any changes to that model
and to now that we have a reference to the calculator view, we want to observe any of the important
events that come from The View.
Let's set that up now.
So here in the initialize, I'm going to want to listen to the reset event and the ADD event coming
from The View.
Let's create those events now.
Here at the top of The View, we'll create those two events.
Neither of them need to send any information along.
So we can just use basic unity events.
So here I've created the on add and on reset events and below in the same class.
When we listen to the UI and capture one of the buttons being clicked, we send out this custom event.
Now as a side point, because the controller has a reference to the view and these view elements are
public in this particular case.
We could instead just have the controller directly listen to the UI events instead of creating this
step with custom events.
What we're showing here is a more decoupled approach and you can decide in your project which works
best for you.
So here in the controller, I wired up those two events, setting up a handler for each of them.
So let's think for a moment what do we want the consequence of each of these to be?
Well, whenever you click the reset button, it should clear out any fields from the A field, from
the B field, and from the results field.
And what do we want to happen when we add?
Well, we want to set the result field to be the addition of the A field and the B field.
With many MVCs, there's flexibility.
So let's talk about some different ways we could do that.
Probably the most direct way would be for the controller to change the fields directly in the view.
Let's see what that would look like.
So starting with the most direct approach here in the Reset, we reach into the View and we set those
UI values back to empty string.
And then in the on ADD, we fetch those values, add them together and update the view directly.
Let's run the scene and see how this behaves.
So here we are in the running scene.
Add a few sample values and click reset.
Looks like it properly resets.
Let's add a few values again and click the add button.
Looks good.
Let's think about this and reflect on our structure.
At this point, we have the controller directly accessing the view within the suggested boundaries of
how we behave here.
That's okay.
It's okay for the controller to have a reference, to view and to directly update it when the controller
directly updates the view.
We're bypassing the model.
Essentially, we're storing the model data directly on The View.
And from a fundamental standpoint, we're slipping out of MVC separation of concerns.
Let's iterate on this and bring a bit more sound principles to the code.